Template content overhaul (#45897)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/template-reference-variables.md

Refer to a template variable anywhere in the component's template.
Here, a `<button>` further down the template refers to the `phone` variable.

<code-example path="template-reference-variables/src/app/app.component.html" region="ref-phone" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

## How Angular assigns values to template variables

Angular assigns a template variable a value based on where you declare the variable:

* If you declare the variable on a component, the variable refers to the component instance.
* If you declare the variable on a standard HTML tag, the variable refers to the element.
* If you declare the variable on an `<ng-template>` element, the variable refers to a `TemplateRef` instance which represents the template.
  For more information on `<ng-template>`, see [How Angular uses the asterisk, `*`, syntax](guide/structural-directives#asterisk) in [Structural directives](guide/structural-directives).

## Variable specifying a name

* If the variable specifies a name on the right-hand side, such as `#var="ngModel"`, the variable refers to the directive or component on the element with a matching `exportAs` name.

> <!-- What does the second half of this mean?^^ Can we explain this more fully? Could I see a working example? -kw -->

Reviewer: I know this isn't your TODO comment, but here's a clarification --

You can name a directive using `exportAs`, and then refer to it via that name in the template:
```
@Directive({
 selector: '[popover]',
 exportAs: 'popover'
})
```

Here is a usage in the template, on the right hand side of the equals:

```
<a tooltip="I'm a popover!!" #mypop="popover">I'm a link</a>
```

Author: The new documents are derived from other existing documents.  Some docs were very long and/or of mixed content between concept and task-based.  I was instructed to break down the longer ones into separate docs and revise or separate the mixed concept/task-based docs.  I was also asked to create some overview documents for certain topics, and the titles for these were to be "Understanding..."  The content for the overviews was derived from existing docs.

### Using `NgForm` with template variables

In most cases, Angular sets the template variable's value to the element on which it occurs.
In the previous example, `phone` refers to the phone number `<input>`.
The button's click handler passes the `<input>` value to the component's `callPhone()` method.

The `NgForm` directive demonstrates getting a reference to a different value by referencing a directive's `exportAs` name.
In the following example, the template variable, `itemForm`, appears three times separated by HTML.

<code-example path="template-reference-variables/src/app/app.component.html" region="ngForm" header="src/app/hero-form.component.html"></code-example>

Without the `ngForm` attribute value, the reference value of `itemForm` would be
the [HTMLFormElement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLFormElement), `<form>`.

> There is, however, a difference between a `Component` and a `Directive` in that Angular references a `Component` without specifying the attribute value, and a `Directive` does not change the implicit reference, or the element.

Reviewer: I don't understand the meaning of this sentence. I suggest deleting it, or rephrasing it for clarity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an element is an Angular Component, a reference with no attribute value will automatically reference the component instance. Otherwise, a reference with no value will reference the DOM element, even if the element has one or more directives applied to it.
```

<!-- What is the train of thought from talking about a form element to the difference between a component and a directive? Why is the component directive conversation relevant here?  -kw I agree -alex -->

## Template variable scope

Just like variables in JavaScript or TypeScript code, template variables are scoped to the template that declares them.

> [Structural directives](guide/built-in-directives) such as `*ngIf` and `*ngFor`, or `<ng-template>` declarations create a new template scope. You cannot access template variables within one of these structural directives from outside of its boundaries.

Reviewer: I think you have an opportunity here to continue the JavaScript metaphor -- these are just like JS control structures (loops, etc) in that they create their own inner lexical scopes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly, [Structural directives](guide/built-in-directives) such as `*ngIf` and `*ngFor`, or `<ng-template>` declarations create a new nested template scope, much like JavaScript's control flow statements like `if` and `for` create new lexical scopes. You cannot access template variables within one of these structural directives from outside of its boundaries.
```
